>> Mike North: So first I want to do
the best I can to convince you that
Types are a good thing to use.
Any time you can catch a bug at
compile time instead of run time,
you are better off for that.
You basically want things
that are gonna break.
You want them to break hard and break
right now, so that you can identify them
and fix them and those things
never make it out into production.
And these type errors,
type mismatch errors,
they happen all the time in JavaScript.
They happen for
very experienced developers.
They happen for people that are on the TC
39 like JavaScript's standards body.
So this is not,
it will help catch newbie mistakes,
this is a tool that will help
keep us honest and keep us
writing things in a well defined way
regardless of level of experience.
So Types provide a better
developer experience.
It is not like all these little auto
complete hints you've been seeing pop
up when I code.
This is not magic from Visual Studio Code.
It's just simply that we know exactly
when we're working with an object
that that is a promise or
that's a window object.
And it's not just an arbitrary JavaScript
thing and we're gonna see what happens
when we run our code and hope that all
those properties that we need are there.
We know what type it's gonna be,
and therefore,
it's easy to use what is called this
TypeScript language service to say,
okay, give me all of the functions
that are available on this object.
Tell me what are the valid
completions here.
And you can present that in the UI and
the IntelliSense like auto complete.
Third point here is you want your code
to be an expression of your intent
as a developer.
So if I had this function here and
I passed in two numbers, what do you
think that this function would do?
That's a question for you.
It's not a rhetorical question.
So if I had a function add and
I pass in three and four,
what would you expect to happen?
>> Speaker 2: Add it together?
>> Speaker 3: Three plus four.
>> Mike North: We'd get seven, right?
We'd be doing arithmetic.
Now if I had a function like that and I
passed in as the first argument, an array,
and the second argument I parse like an
object, what might you expect to happen?
>> Mike North: I think, maybe we should
concat that item into the array,
we should push it into the array.
So this here, this is a poor
expression of an intent, right?
This, without knowing what
types of objects these are,
this is ambiguous, right?
This could mean there are multiple
interpretations of add.
There are multiple
interpretations of remove.
And so being able to say,
this function is called add,
and, well, first of all,
I've picked terrible variable names here.
That's mostly what we do
as JavaScript developers.
We might try to add some better
intent here by saying add, and
then the first argument's array, and the
second argument is item to add into array.
Something like that.
But just adding the types there,
that would help us understand, all right,
this is what we're working with here.
This is what I should be passing in here.
Even for options objects,
if you've ever used Fetch or Ajax,
you're passing a URL as a first argument,
that's pretty straightforward.
But then you have this options object and
we don't know, you have to go and
look at the documentation to figure
out what are all the properties here.
Like is there a well defined structure for
this object and
if so what am I allowed to use?
If we have Types, then we say, okay,
well, somewhere in code it is
the structure of this object is defined.
Show me that, right click on it,
show me the type definition.
Like, now we know exactly what
this is designed to receive.
So, it goes a long way in terms of
helping us build more intent into code.
I don't remember, I wish I could credit
the person that I heard this from,
I don't remember it.
But there's a nice quote I like which is,
the signature of your function,
this what you're seeing on your screen,
that is almost like a hypothesis and
the implementation of the function
is the proof that it works.
So, you need to have a well defined
statement of what you're trying to do
in order for there to be any hope with it
like people are going to use it properly.
Finally, you by writing things in
a way that is aligned with a strongly
typed language, you avoid situations
where your code can be de-optimized.
And I could go much deeper
into this topic, but
let me do the best I can to see
if we can just touch on it.
So let's look at one popular,
modern JavaScript runtime, Chrome,
or the V8 engine inside
Chrome more specifically.
That's where your JavaScript runs.
So there are two pieces of
program machinery inside Chrome,
one is called ignition and that is
an interpreter for JavaScript, right?
It works the way all interpreters work in
that it takes your source code directly
and basically like statement by statement,
expression by expression,
it's going to build things up as it goes
and execute what you told it to execute.
If your code is found to be
reliably behaving in the same way.
Meaning, it's an object that has
consistent properties on it,
it always has the same
names of properties and
the values of those properties
are always of the same type.
We would actually call this the shape
of this object is the same.
Where shape simply means,
names of properties, and
the types of the values
of those properties.
If that's found to be consistent,
your code gets promoted into this second,
faster piece of the V8 run time and
it's called Turbo Fan.
And that is a compiler for JavaScript.
It actually takes your JavaScript and
makes assembly code out of it.
That runs right on the architecture that
that particular browser is built for.
And it ends up running a lot faster,
right?
Compiled code is a lot faster in
general than interpreted code.
So, you're in the fast lane now.
We would call this code hot, like this
is a hot function, it is now optimized.
If you break the rules once,
if you basically like change the type of
one of those values and now you sort
of break with the assumptions or
break, you deviate from that consistent
behavior that got you into the fast lane,
you're back into slow lane again.
And potentially code that's around that,
that's using it,
also back in the slow lane.
And it becomes de-optimized.
And you're in the penalty
box basically forever.
I mean, until the next page load, until
you basically start the program again.
So, writing code in a strongly typed
way where you're forced, you basically
get errors or warnings whenever you add
a property that wasn't there before,
or you change the type of the value of
a property, you want to get those errors.
You want to detect those
while you're developing so
that your code is more likely
to remain in this fast lane,
in this optimized compiler and
to not fall out.
>> Mike North: So when you're optimized,
even the assembly that's used to sort of
set up the initial function invocation,
maybe it's just taking arguments and
making them available on the particular
names and sort of allocating memory for
the closure.
That assembly code is actually cached and
reused over and
over and over for repeated function
invocations or repeated use of an object.
So you kinda get the benefit of
caching and reusing stuff, and
you're dealing with compiled code,
not interpreted code.
So you want to be strongly typed, or
consistent use of property names and
types will get you into a position where
you're more likely to be optimized.
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: You might have a question in
chat you haven't addressed.
>> Mike North: Question from chat.
So why does ES6 not support Types?
Simple answer there is ES6 is
designed to be a super set of ES5.
And adding Types in that is not
backwards compatible, really.
And for that matter, it would be changing
the fundamental nature of JavaScript,
which you really can't do.
So in order for ES6 to just be
a collection of features that are added
on top of ES5, for it to be just the next
version of the same programming language,
we can't really add Types to it.
Now remember, there are Types in ES6 but
it is a dynamically typed language.
There are no strong Types, right?
Which is why we can have an array and
put two strings and then a number and
then a function, and then another array,
and then the window object.
That can all exist quite
happily in the same array.
So we want to make sure that when we say,
next generation of JavaScript,
we are not crossing a line and
saying that that's not okay anymore.
It may be that it is not okay anymore,
if you want your code to be fast.
But we can't make that
disruptive change to JavaScript.